MUDRA SASHTRA:
--------------

In olden and most primitive & archaic age there was no languageSpoken by mankind or humans. 
Mostly we lived in a primeval way not botheringabout communication. When ages changed, 
the nature also was churning itself for a change, the result human minds created sign languages, 
then gestures, then exchange a little verbal actions, 
and finally our superficial human brain discovered languages for communication. 
The science of Gestures invented the sound (nada), shabda and human nature identified it as an a useful tool for communication.
Thus the sound was developed into alphabets & languages came as a mechanism for communication skills. 
Today we are in the peak of discoveriesand inventions, and the communication is developing an origin with simple IC chips can carry a wholesome knowledge of dictionary, Philosophy, literatures, and so on..

The science of Gestures is a gift of our ancient Rishis and Munis, 
and even Gods have communicated each other by gestures. 
We can see the evidences in the walls of our ancient temples, 
which has records of communication by even Gods & Goddess. 
Human body is filled with abundant secrets and unrevealed truths. 
Body has its own needs and it can communicate, thus body language was understood by each other. 
These body languages are nothing but our own needs, expressions of our desires, anger, temperament, 
sad, joy, easy, uneasy, diseases, everything it can show by gestures, thus body languages developed. 
Thus we can understand Mudra’s are also an expression, a sign language, a bodily gesture, or even a communication we can say. 
Those mudra’s are gestures developed by gods & Goddesses and later these skills were followed thoroughly by our ancient Rishis & Munis.



What is “PANCHA BHUTAS”? How they are associated with our body? 
----------------------------------------------------------------

Pancha bhutas are the five elements ruling the nature. Nature is completely governed and controlled by these five elements. These five elements are as follows…

1. ‘AGNI’- FIRE.  	--THUMB
2. ‘VAYU’- AIR.  	--INDEX
3. ‘AKASH’- SPACE	--MIDDLE 
4. ‘PRITHVI’- EARTH	--RING
5. ‘JAL’- WATER  	--Little Finger

Similarly these five elements are common in ruling the nature of human body. 
These Panchabhutas play a key role for balancing the senses & organs of human body. 
Our human body has fire, air comes out of the body in the form of gas either or we inhale air in the form of oxygen, 
again human body has space within which is called akash, our whole body is filled with flesh & bones 
which has all minerals of the earth so naturally prithvi is found, and finally we can understand 70% of our body is filled with water so jala is there in the body. So, we can understand the role of “PANCHA BHUTAS” in our physical body.